---
layout: post
title:  "Session 1"
date:   2022-10-12 22:00:00 -0000
categories: sessions
---

	Start time: 2993 AEP, Horasday, the 23rd day of Besemios, the 9th month, noon.

Players:

1. Battista, Level 1 Elf, in pact with The Fates, Lawful
2. Pif Feldman, Level 1 Cleric of Demma, Lawful Goddess of the Harvest
3. Spine Thundergruff, Level 1 Dwarf, Lawful
4. Waldorf, Level 1 Halfling, Lawful

Hirelings:

1. Basil, Level 1 Warrior, Neutral
2. Sarnai, Level 1 Thief, Chaotic

  The party began a short distance from the falls, and Waldorf came up with some hand signals to still be able to communicate over the deafening sound of the waterfall. Then the party began their journey up The Long Stair.

Spine inspected the giant stone hand of the colossal statue of Arden, and noticed that there seemed to be an area in the center of the palm that looked perfect for one person to stand on.

The party then continued to a small room dug into the side of the cliff. They found a fireplace that had been used as recently as last night, as well as a supply of firewood.

They passed the next few switchbacks before arriving at another small room in the side of the cliff. It was filled with scraps of trash, and had a spider web in the back. The party decided not to search it and began ascending The Long Stair again.

They reached the top and saw the ruins of Arden Vul before them. They moved 230' to the northeast and searched a small ruined structure for about 30 minutes. They found nothing of value.

They then went to a tower about 200' away from the searched ruined structure. They ran a perimeter around it, and Battista elf-sensed a secret door that was activated by pushing in one of the flagstones. They entered the tower, and explored a few rooms after having Sarnai and Basil each light a torch.

Spine took an ornate silk robe embroidered with Ibises, Baboons, and a word written in Mithric. The only party member who knew any Mithric was Battista, on account of its use in spellcasting, however, he did not recognize the word.  Basil found a body with a shimmering sword, shimmering leather armor, a golden potion, a set of fine lock picks, and a purse with 20sp and 7gp. He looted it immediately and returned to the party.

Spine took the sword, Waldorf took the armor, Sarnai took the lock picks, and Basil kept the coins and potion.

	End time: 2993 AEP, Horasday, the 23rd day of Besemios, the 9th month, 1:30pm.
