
Players:

1. Battista, Level 1 Elf, in pact with The Fates, Lawful
2. Marcellus, Level 1 Archontean Cleric of Atashak, Chaotic God of Fire and Battle
3. Pif Feldman, Level 1 Thorcin Cleric of Demma, Lawful Goddess of the Harvest
4. Spine Thundergruff, Level 1 Dwarf, Lawful
5. Waldorf, Level 1 Halfling, Lawful

Hirelings:

1. Basil, Level 1 Archontean Warrior, Neutral
2. Sarnai, Level 1 Khummus Thief, Chaotic

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Note taker/map maker: Bill**  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Caller: Brad**

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Somehow, the party survived the encounter with the assassin vine, and some clutch healing from the party’s two clerics managed to keep everyone alive. Basil suffered a concussion after he was accidentally bonked on the head by Spine’s warhammer. Though the assassin vine went down after two rounds of burning and being shot at, the rest of the room began to catch fire. The party had to flee.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;They retreated to the surface and waited out the fire while searching the ruins for anything of value. Nothing was found. However, a conversation was heard on the other side of the wall between several voices, and, shortly thereafter, a dog-like humanoid poked his head up above the wall, using the party’s own rope to scale it. It looked at the party briefly, then turned its head back to the others on his side of the wall, and said, in a strange dialect of Archontean “heh, just adventurers” and climbed back down the wall.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After the fire burned out, the group descended again, only to be confronted by a massive plant behemoth that apparently hid from the fire in the fountain with the unknown water source. Behind the behemoth, roughly in the location of the now dead and burned assassin vine, Spine’s Dwarf nose smelled large amounts of treasure. Still, the behemoth was terrifying. Waldorf rolled a natural 20 on initiative, likely saving his own life, and the group immediately ran away.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The adventuring company, which decided to name itself The Six Finger Discount, returned to the surface and scaled the wall. Weighed down by their armor, the group again struggled to surmount the wall, with Battista taking 2 damage and the Halfling deciding to burn some luck to save Marcellus. They traveled to the southern end of the island and dug through some rubble for an hour to reveal a stone staircase leading into the earth, terminating at two closed bronze doors.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As it was getting close to sundown (6:30pm during this season in Magae) the group decided to leave. They descended The Long Stair and made camp about 2 miles from Arden Vul.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After a day and a half of travel, the group returned to Glosterwick on the 25th at noon, and each gained 102gp (and 102xp, of course) from their share of the loot. The magic sword was identified as a +1 Lawful short sword of retribution against murderers and bane of goblinoids, and was taken by Waldorf. A +1 shield and +1 leather armor was also identified. Marcellus hung around in taverns and learned a few new rumors. These activities took a few days.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On the 27th of Besemios, the Festival of Demmathon occurred. It is a festival to celebrate the harvest, the beginning of Fall, as well as Demma, the Goddess of fertility, crops, households, childbirth, and magic.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*End time: 2993 AEP, Totsday (3rd day of the week), the 27th day of Besemios, the 9th month, 7:00am.*
