---
layout: post
title:  "Session 2"
date:   2022-10-19 21:30:00 -0000
categories: sessions
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Note taker/map maker: BG**
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Caller: BD**
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Treasurer/Quartermaster: JP**

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The party continued their investigation of the tower that reeked of death, looting a rope made of a bright white material, as well as a lantern and three flasks of oil. They climbed the spiral staircase to the second floor, finding two bodies: one fresh, and one ancient and dessicated. On the former, they found a scroll of fireball and a scroll of detect magic inside a scroll case, as well as shimmering chainmail and a shimmering shield. They also found a pouch with 175gp worth of hematite gems. On the desiccated corpse, they found a note with something written in Mithric. Searching the rest of the floor, they found a room containing 10 shimmering masks (five representing ibises, three baboons, and two stylized, male humans). They left the masks hanging on the pegs where they found them.
  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The group then marched up the spiral staircase to the third floor, where they found words written in blood on the door that said “Do not open the doors below! They are waiting!”. Circling around to the other room on the third floor, they found two bodies drained of life and the remains of a ruined administrative office, but nothing else of value. After this, they decided to leave the tower.
  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Returning to the ruins, the group was ambushed by six giant frogs. Pif cleverly threw five rations at them, distracting them long enough for the party to escape. The party then went to the cellar to the north west of the tower, and dug out some rubble to find a cellar. In the cellar, they found the arm of a giant marble statue. Moving to the west of the cellar, they found the marble statue that matched the make of the giant arm, but only the feet of the statue remained. 
  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The party then crossed a bridge to the west of the ruined statue, and came upon a ruined structure enclosed by a 20’ high wall. They were unable to open the ebony doors, but Sarnai was able to climb over the wall and affix a rope. The rest of the group made it safely across, but not before the Halfling summoned a bit of good luck to help his compatriot, Spine.
  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Moving through the ruins of the structure, they entered into a 30’ high tower. Inside, they found a ruined tapestry worth 30gp. They then descended a flight of stairs, and came across a magical circle of some kind. Battista walked through it, and Waldof threw his bowl into a nearby square container to no effect.
  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Continuing down the stairs, the party came across a large chamber that was filled with all manner of exotic flora, almost like a jungle. Moving through it, the party was beset by an assassin vine. Two tendrils shot out, ensnaring the left arms of Basil and Marcellus, causing them to drop their shields. The group was able to cut away the tendril constricting Basil, but not before three more tendrils shot out, with one grabbing the left legs of Basil and Spine, and the right leg of Sarnai. Pif threw a makeshift molotov cocktail, hitting the assassin vine and damaging its constricting vines (damage: 3 to the tendril on Basil’s left leg, 3 to the tendril on Marcellus’s left arm, 1 to the tendril on Spine’s left leg, 2 to the tendril on Sarnai’s right leg, and 2 damage to the assassin vine itself). Note: the Judge must remember to have Pif roll for the molotov damage next turn.
  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Battista cast a spell, calling on the Fates to summon the Blade of Atropos, and he stabbed the assassin vine itself, damaging it significantly, but not bloodying it. Three more vines sprouted from it, grabbing Basil’s torso, the right leg of Marcellus, and the left leg of Spine. 
  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At the end of the session, Basil had his left leg and torso ensnared, Marcellus had his left arm and right leg ensnared, Spine had his left leg ensnared, and Sarnai had her right leg ensnared. The party then witnessed three more vines sprout from the plant beast. It is the party’s turn to act...

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*End time: 2993 AEP, Horasday (6th day of the week), the 23rd day of Besemios, the 9th month, 4:10pm. Sundown is at 6:30pm.*
