Players:

1. Battista, Level 1 Elf, in pact with The Fates, Lawful
2. Marcellus, Level 1 Archontean Cleric of Atashak, Chaotic God of Fire and Battle
3. Pif Feldman, Level 1 Thorcin Cleric of Demma, Lawful Goddess of the Harvest
4. Spine Thundergruff, Level 1 Dwarf, Lawful
5. Waldorf, Level 1 Halfling, Lawful
6. Everet, Level 1 Archontean Warrior, Chaotic

Hirelings:

1. Anaximander, Level 0 Archontean Squire

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Note taker/map maker: Bill**  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Caller: Brad**
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Treasurer/Quartermaster: Earl**

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;While they waited for the others to rest and recover, Spine worked on his blacksmith skills for three days, and then prayed for guidance from the God of the Dwarves, Zodarrim. Waldorf prayed to a deity for 4 days, and received a single +1 bonus to a roll of his choice in the next week due to the god’s favor. He then sold the +1 Lockpicks for 50gp. Pif found two possible hirelings before praying for two days. The party hired Anaximander, a strong and swift Archontean squire (level 0), and paid 6.5gp to cover three days’ wages in advance and equip him with 5 torches, 5 rations, a waterskin, and a backpack.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Right before leaving, a new member of the guild joined the party: Everet the Archontean Warrior. Earl happened to roll a natural 12 on his level 1 hp roll, resulting in a total of 17 max hp! The party seemed very happy to have the new tank join them.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;They set out on the 1st of Basilembrios at 7:30am, dawn. Soon after leaving town, the party was ambushed by several giant rats. Anaximander got his throat ripped out twice by therats and was healed both times. Still, he took an internal injury, and promptly fled the battle. He was an adventurer for only four hours.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The party marched for another four hours before settling down to camp for the night. Pif was on watch when a swarm of stirges attacked. He went down and was healed, but sustained a lingering injury: a crippled arm. He can now only hold one item at a time and cannot use two-handed weapons.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After scaring off a massive swarm of insects with a Word of Command spell, the group reached the cliffs at 12:30pm the next day. Before ascending the Long Stair, they decided to head one hour west to investigate a thicket rumored to be the site of a priestess of Mitra’s abduction. They scouted around the thicket for about 10 minutes and noticed a two-story ruined watchtower in the center of it.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The group completed their circuit around the thicket and overheard a group of kobolds walking towards them from within its tall, tangled vines. They decided to attempt to sneak up on them, but Battista stepped on a twig or two and alerted the kobolds. There were 10 of them total, but they were not immediately hostile.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;One of the kobolds spoke Archontean (the common tongue of the region), and he promptly stepped forward and identified himself as “Grimblegrom.” Battista remarked that this was a very strong name, and the kobold agreed, noting that it meant “dung-shoveller” in Kobold. Battista told Grimblegrom that they were looking for a priestess to try to find her and collect a large reward for her safe return. Grimblegrom said he would share information about her, but only if promised a cut of the reward. Battista agreed, and the two became blood brothers through a ritualized exchange of food and water to cement their pact. Grimblegrom revealed that they had knocked the priestess unconscious and sold her to a group he called the “Choirans,” a race of pig-like humanoids. The kobold claimed that this group called themselves “the Children of Dieno,” and that Dieno was rumored to be some kind of witch. He also mentioned that his kobold tribe was the only one in the thicket, and that they lived in the ruined tower.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After this exchange of information, the party departed to ascend the cliffs of Arden Vul. Before they made it to the base of the Long Stair, however, they encountered a patrol of dog-like humanoids. The six troopers appeared to be led by a sergeant and wore studded leather armor. Upon seeing the Fingers, the patrol drew and knocked arrows on their shortbows with military precision, formed up in a line before the party, but did not attack. The party just held up their hands and retreated backwards. This prompted the dog-like humanoids to turn and march up the Long Stair, but not without checking behind their backs every now and then.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Fingers decided to stay put and watch the patrol ascend the cliff to see where they went. However, they were interrupted when a mountain lion ambushed them unexpectedly. They were able to dispatch the creature, but not before Everet was wounded. The clerics kept healing, with mixed results, but were eventually able to heal Everet up to full.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The group then spent almost an hour butchering, cooking, and eating the mountain lion before returning to the base of the cliff. Upon reaching it, the dog-like humanoid patrol could no longer be seen. They ascended the Long Stair, not stopping until they reached the top at 3:20pm.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;End time: 2993 AEP, Basilsday (1st day of the week), the 2nd day of Basilembrios, the 10th month, 3:20pm.
